ADCDACPi/README.md, before:

AB Electronics UK ADCDAC Pi Python Library
=====

Python 2 Library to use with ADCDAC Pi Raspberry Pi expansion board from http://www.abelectronics.co.uk

Install
====

To download to your Raspberry Pi type in terminal: 

```
git clone https://github.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python_Libraries.git
```
The ADCDAC Pi library is located in the ADCDACPi directory

Add the location where you downloaded the python libraries into PYTHONPATH e.g. download location is Desktop
```
export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:~/Desktop/ABElectronics_Python_Libraries/ADCDACPi/
```

The example python files in /ABElectronics_Python_Libraries/ADCDACPi/ will now run from the terminal.

Functions:
----------

```
read_adc_voltage(channel) 
```
Read the voltage from the selected channel on the ADC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2  
**Returns:** number as float between 0 and 2.048

```
read_adc_raw(channel) 
```
Read the raw value from the selected channel on the ADC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2  
**Returns:** int
```
set_adc_refvoltage(voltage)
```
Set the reference voltage for the analogue to digital converter.  
The ADC uses the raspberry pi 3.3V power as a voltage reference so using this method to set the reference to match the exact output voltage from the 3.3V regulator will increase the accuracy of the ADC readings.  
**Parameters:** voltage - float between 0.0 and 7.0  
**Returns:** null

```
set_dac_voltage(channel, voltage)
```
Set the voltage for the selected channel on the DAC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2,  voltage can be between 0 and 2.047 volts  
**Returns:** null 

```
set_dac_raw(channel, value)
```
Set the raw value from the selected channel on the DAC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2,value int between 0 and 4095  
**Returns:** null 
Usage
====

To use the ADCDAC Pi library in your code you must first import the library:
```
from ABE_ADCDACPi import ADCDACPi
```
Next you must initialise the adcdac object:
```
adcdac = ADCDACPi()
```
Set the reference voltage.
```
adcdac.set_adc_refvoltage(3.3)
```
Read the voltage from channel 2 and display on the screen
```
print adcdac.read_adc_voltage(2)
```

Commit message:

Updated the ADC DAC Pi library to support DAC gain
Added the ability to set the gain for the DAC output so the voltage can
be set up to 2.048V with gain 1 or 3.3V with gain 2.

ADCDACPi/README.md, after:

AB Electronics UK ADCDAC Pi Python 3 Library
=====

Python 3 Library to use with ADCDAC Pi Raspberry Pi expansion board from http://www.abelectronics.co.uk

Install
====

To download to your Raspberry Pi type in terminal: 

```
git clone https://github.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries.git
```
The ADCDAC Pi library is located in the ADCDACPi directory

```

The example python files in /ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/ADCDACPi/ will now run from the terminal.

Functions:
----------

```
read_adc_voltage(channel) 
```
Read the voltage from the selected channel on the ADC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2  
**Returns:** number as float between 0 and 2.048

```
read_adc_raw(channel) 
```
Read the raw value from the selected channel on the ADC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2  
**Returns:** int
```
set_adc_refvoltage(voltage)
```
Set the reference voltage for the analogue to digital converter.  
The ADC uses the raspberry pi 3.3V power as a voltage reference so using this method to set the reference to match the exact output voltage from the 3.3V regulator will increase the accuracy of the ADC readings.  
**Parameters:** voltage - float between 0.0 and 7.0  
**Returns:** null

```
set_dac_voltage(channel, voltage)
```
Set the voltage for the selected channel on the DAC.  The DAC has two gain values, 1 or 2, which can be set when the ADCDAC object is created.  A gain of 1 will give a voltage between 0 and 2.047 volts.  A gain of 2 will give a voltage between 0 and 3.3 volts.  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2,  voltage can be between 0 and 2.047 volts  
**Returns:** null 

```
set_dac_raw(channel, value)
```
Set the raw value from the selected channel on the DAC  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 or 2,value int between 0 and 4095  
**Returns:** null 
Usage
====

To use the ADCDAC Pi library in your code you must first import the library:
```
from ABE_ADCDACPi import ADCDACPi
```
Next you must initialise the adcdac object and set a gain of 1 or 2 for the DAC:
```
adcdac = ADCDACPi(1)
```
Set the reference voltage.
```
adcdac.set_adc_refvoltage(3.3)
```
Read the voltage from channel 2 and display on the screen
```
print adcdac.read_adc_voltage(2)
```
