DeltaSigmaPi/README.md, before:

AB Electronics UK Delta-Sigma Pi Python 3 Library
=====

Python 3 Library to use with Delta-Sigma Pi Raspberry Pi expansion board from http://www.abelectronics.co.uk
Install
====
To download to your Raspberry Pi type in terminal: 

```
git clone https://github.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries.git
```

The Delta-Sigma Pi library is located in the DeltaSigmaPi directory

The library requires python-smbus to be installed.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libi2c-dev

wget http://ftp.de.debian.org/debian/pool/main/i/i2c-tools/i2c-tools_3.1.0.orig.tar.bz2     # download i2c-tools source
tar xf i2c-tools_3.1.0.orig.tar.bz2
cd i2c-tools-3.1.0/py-smbus
mv smbusmodule.c smbusmodule.c.orig
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/master/smbusmodule.c

sudo bash
python3 setup.py build
python3 setup.py install
```
Add the location where you downloaded the python libraries into PYTHONPATH e.g. download location is Desktop
```
export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:~/Desktop/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/DeltaSigmaPi/
```

The example python files in /ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/DeltaSigmaPi/ will now run from the terminal.
Functions:
----------
```
read_voltage(channel) 
```
Read the voltage from the selected channel  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 to 8 
**Returns:** number as float between 0 and 5.0

```
read_raw(channel) 
```
Read the raw int value from the selected channel  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 to 8 
**Returns:** number as int

```
set_pga(gain)
```
Set the gain of the PDA on the chip  
**Parameters:** gain -  1, 2, 4, 8  
**Returns:** null

```
set_bit_rate(rate)
```
Set the sample bit rate of the adc  
**Parameters:** rate -  12, 14, 16, 18  
**Returns:** null  
12 = 12 bit (240SPS max)  
14 = 14 bit (60SPS max)  
16 = 16 bit (15SPS max)  
18 = 18 bit (3.75SPS max)

```
set_conversion_mode(mode)
```
Set the conversion mode for the adc  
**Parameters:** mode -  0 = One-shot conversion, 1 = Continuous conversion  
**Returns:** null
  
Usage
====

To use the Delta-Sigma library in your code you must first import the library:
```
from ABE_DeltaSigmaPi import DeltaSigma
```
Now import the helper class
```
from ABE_helpers import ABEHelpers
```
Next you must initialise the adc object and smbus:
```
i2c_helper = ABEHelpers()
bus = i2c_helper.get_smbus()
adc = DeltaSigma(bus, 0x68, 0x69, 18)
```
The first argument is the smbus object folled by the two I2C addresses of the ADC chips. The values shown are the default addresses of the ADC board.

The forth argument is the sample bit rate you want to use on the adc chips. Sample rate can be 12, 14, 16 or 18


You can now read the voltage from channel 1 with:
```
adc.read_voltage(1)
```

Commit message:

Updated readme files
Update the readme files to add the tutorial for enabling i2c and
python-smbus on the raspberry pi.

DeltaSigmaPi/README.md, after:

AB Electronics UK Delta-Sigma Pi Python 3 Library
=====

Python 3 Library to use with Delta-Sigma Pi Raspberry Pi expansion board from http://www.abelectronics.co.uk
Install
====
To download to your Raspberry Pi type in terminal: 

```
git clone https://github.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries.git
```

The Delta-Sigma Pi library is located in the DeltaSigmaPi directory

The library requires i2c to be enabled and python-smbus to be installed.

Follow the tutorial at [https://www.abelectronics.co.uk/i2c-raspbian-wheezy/info.aspx](https://www.abelectronics.co.uk/i2c-raspbian-wheezy/info.aspx) to enable i2c and install python-smbus for python 3.

Add the location where you downloaded the python libraries into PYTHONPATH e.g. download location is Desktop
```
export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:~/Desktop/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/DeltaSigmaPi/
```

The example python files in /ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/DeltaSigmaPi/ will now run from the terminal.
Functions:
----------
```
read_voltage(channel) 
```
Read the voltage from the selected channel  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 to 8 
**Returns:** number as float between 0 and 5.0

```
read_raw(channel) 
```
Read the raw int value from the selected channel  
**Parameters:** channel - 1 to 8 
**Returns:** number as int

```
set_pga(gain)
```
Set the gain of the PDA on the chip  
**Parameters:** gain -  1, 2, 4, 8  
**Returns:** null

```
set_bit_rate(rate)
```
Set the sample bit rate of the adc  
**Parameters:** rate -  12, 14, 16, 18  
**Returns:** null  
12 = 12 bit (240SPS max)  
14 = 14 bit (60SPS max)  
16 = 16 bit (15SPS max)  
18 = 18 bit (3.75SPS max)

```
set_conversion_mode(mode)
```
Set the conversion mode for the adc  
**Parameters:** mode -  0 = One-shot conversion, 1 = Continuous conversion  
**Returns:** null
  
Usage
====

To use the Delta-Sigma library in your code you must first import the library:
```
from ABE_DeltaSigmaPi import DeltaSigma
```
Now import the helper class
```
from ABE_helpers import ABEHelpers
```
Next you must initialise the adc object and smbus:
```
i2c_helper = ABEHelpers()
bus = i2c_helper.get_smbus()
adc = DeltaSigma(bus, 0x68, 0x69, 18)
```
The first argument is the smbus object folled by the two I2C addresses of the ADC chips. The values shown are the default addresses of the ADC board.

The forth argument is the sample bit rate you want to use on the adc chips. Sample rate can be 12, 14, 16 or 18


You can now read the voltage from channel 1 with:
```
adc.read_voltage(1)
```
