ServoPi/README.md, before:

AB Electronics UK Servo Pi Python 3 Library
=====

Python 3 Library to use with Servo Pi Raspberry Pi expansion board from http://www.abelectronics.co.uk

Install
====

To download to your Raspberry Pi type in terminal: 

```
git clone https://github.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries.git
```
The Servo Pi library is located in the ServoPi directory

Add the location where you downloaded the python libraries into PYTHONPATH e.g. download location is Desktop
```
export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:~/Desktop/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/ServoPi/
```

The library requires i2c to be enabled and python-smbus to be installed.

Follow the tutorial at [https://www.abelectronics.co.uk/i2c-raspbian-wheezy/info.aspx](https://www.abelectronics.co.uk/i2c-raspbian-wheezy/info.aspx) to enable i2c and install python-smbus for python 3.

The example python files in /ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/ServoPi/ will now run from the terminal.

Functions:
----------

```
set_pwm_freq(freq) 
```
Set the PWM frequency
**Parameters:** freq - required frequency  
**Returns:** null

```
set_pwm(channel, on, off) 
```
Set the output on single channels
**Parameters:** channel - 1 to 16, on - time period, off - time period
**Returns:** null


```
set_all_pwm( on, off) 
```
Set the output on all channels
**Parameters:** on - time period, off - time period
**Returns:** null

```
output_disable()
```
Disable the output via OE pin
**Parameters:** null
**Returns:** null

```
output_enable()
```
Enable the output via OE pin
**Parameters:** null
**Returns:** null

Usage
====

To use the Servo Pi library in your code you must first import the library:
```
from ABE_ServoPi import PWM
```
Next you must initialise the ServoPi object:
```
pwm = PWM(0x40)
```
Set PWM frequency to 60 Hz
```
pwm.set_pwm_freq(60)                        
pwm.output_enable()
```
Set three variables for pulse length
```
servoMin = 250  # Min pulse length out of 4096
servoMed = 400  # Min pulse length out of 4096
servoMax = 500  # Max pulse length out of 4096
```
Loop to move the servo on port 0 between three points
```
while (True):
  pwm.set_pwm(0, 0, servoMin)
  time.sleep(0.5)
  pwm.set_pwm(0, 0, servoMed)
  time.sleep(0.5)
  pwm.set_pwm(0, 0, servoMax)
  time.sleep(0.5)
  # use set_all_pwm to set PWM on all outputs
```

Commit message:

New functions added to the Servo Pi library
Added new functions to control the All Call feature on the PWM chip.
You can now set the All Call i2c address, enbale the feature or disable
it.

ServoPi/README.md, after:

AB Electronics UK Servo Pi Python 3 Library
=====

Python 3 Library to use with Servo Pi Raspberry Pi expansion board from http://www.abelectronics.co.uk

Install
====

To download to your Raspberry Pi type in terminal: 

```
git clone https://github.com/abelectronicsuk/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries.git
```
The Servo Pi library is located in the ServoPi directory

Add the location where you downloaded the python libraries into PYTHONPATH e.g. download location is Desktop
```
export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:~/Desktop/ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/ServoPi/
```

The library requires i2c to be enabled and python3-smbus to be installed.

Follow the tutorial at [https://www.abelectronics.co.uk/kb/article/1/i2c--smbus-and-raspbian-linux](https://www.abelectronics.co.uk/kb/article/1/i2c--smbus-and-raspbian-linux) to enable i2c and install python-smbus for python 3.

The example python files in /ABElectronics_Python3_Libraries/ServoPi/ will now run from the terminal.

Functions:
----------

```
set_pwm_freq(freq) 
```
Set the PWM frequency
**Parameters:** freq - required frequency  
**Returns:** null

```
set_pwm(channel, on, off) 
```
Set the output on single channels
**Parameters:** channel - 1 to 16, on - time period, off - time period
**Returns:** null


```
set_all_pwm( on, off) 
```
Set the output on all channels
**Parameters:** on - time period, off - time period
**Returns:** null

```
output_disable()
```
Disable the output via OE pin
**Parameters:** null
**Returns:** null

```
output_enable()
```
Enable the output via OE pin
**Parameters:** null
**Returns:** null

```
set_allcall_address(address)
```
Set the I2C address for the All Call function
**Parameters:** address
**Returns:** null

```
enable_allcall_address()
```
Enable the I2C address for the All Call function
**Parameters:** null
**Returns:** null

```
disable_allcall_address()
```
Disable the I2C address for the All Call function
**Parameters:** null
**Returns:** null

Usage
====

To use the Servo Pi library in your code you must first import the library:
```
from ABE_ServoPi import PWM
```
Next you must initialise the ServoPi object:
```
pwm = PWM(0x40)
```
Set PWM frequency to 60 Hz
```
pwm.set_pwm_freq(60)                        
pwm.output_enable()
```
Set three variables for pulse length
```
servoMin = 250  # Min pulse length out of 4096
servoMed = 400  # Min pulse length out of 4096
servoMax = 500  # Max pulse length out of 4096
```
Loop to move the servo on port 0 between three points
```
while (True):
  pwm.set_pwm(0, 0, servoMin)
  time.sleep(0.5)
  pwm.set_pwm(0, 0, servoMed)
  time.sleep(0.5)
  pwm.set_pwm(0, 0, servoMax)
  time.sleep(0.5)
  # use set_all_pwm to set PWM on all outputs
```
